Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course in Tableau. Today we're starting the
section on animations. To get the data
set,
you need to go to superdatascience.com/tableau-advanced and if you
scroll down to the bottom here in
section 5 animations you will see quite
a few files so you got the challenge and
you've got four datasets which all have
been taken from the worldbank.org
website.
Alright now that we have the datasets,
let's open up the challenge and see what
it says here. You have been hired by the
World Bank as a Tableau developer, your
first assignment is to deliver an
animated dashboard showing how
population's of countries across the
world have been in developing over the
past 50 years specifically the
stakeholders of this assignment are
interested to see overall trends
infertility life expectancy and
population in addition to overall trends
they would like to be able to drill into
individual countries.
Ok so that's a challenge and the
interesting bit is that this time is
going to be a bit different to what we
usually expect. I'm actually going to
show you the end result first and it
won't be the end result the one that
we'll create but it will be what we will
be replicating so let me bring up a
browser to explain what I mean. So here
I've got a TED talk by the way if you
haven't been to this website ted.com,
definitely check it out. It's got amazing
very inspiring talks on all different
subjects and science, on literature, on
psychology, on everything and just very
short talks that people share great
information and here we've got Hans
Rosling. In 2006, he shared the best
stats you've ever seen so he had some
very interesting visualizations of
different demographic and
different types of data sets and they
were very very forward-thinking for that
time and I'm just going to show you a
bit of his presentation so just going to
click play now and will be about two
minutes long and you will see the
dashboard that we will be recreating so
that you know what will be aspiring
towards. So here we go, because my
students what they said when they looked
upon the world and I asked them what do
you really think about the world and
while I first discovered that the
textbook was tenting mainly and and they
said the world is still we and them and
we is Western world and them is third
world and what do you mean with Western
world I said. Well that's long life in
small family, and third world is short
life in large family so this is what I
could display here I put fertility rate
here, number of children per woman 1,2,3,4
up to about eight children per woman. We
have very good data since 1962, 1960
about on the size of
families in all country. The error margin
is narrow. Here I put life expectancy at
birth from 30 years in some countries up
to about 70 years and 1962 that was
really a group of countries here that
was industrialized countries and they
had small families and long lives and
these were the developing countries they
had large families and they had
relatively short lives. Now what has
happened in 1962, we want to see the
change of the students right? It's still
two types of countries or have these
developing countries got smaller
families and they live here or have they
got longer lives and live up there.
Let's see we stop the world and this is
all you and statistic that has been
available. Here we go
can you see there, it shine out there
moving games better health care
improving their or the green Latin
American countries they are moving
towards smaller families. Your yellow
ones here are the Arabic countries and
they get larger families but they no
longer life but not larger families. The
Africans are the green down here but
still remain here. This is India,
Indonesia is moving on pretty fast and
in the eighties here you have Bangladesh,
still among the African comfort there. But
now Bangladesh, it's a miracle that
happens in the eighties. The Oman start to
promote family planning and they move up
into that
corner and in nineties, we have the
terrible HIV epidemic that takes down
the life expectancy of the African
countries and all the rest of the world
moves up into the corner where we have
long lives and small family and we have
a completely new world.
Let me make a comparison directly
between, so there we go,
how was that pretty inspiring wasn't it?
In fact one of the students of the basic
Tableau course actually suggested this
video so thanks a lot for that and in
our section here we're going to be
recreating that visual and more we're
actually going to update because this
visualization was created some 2006 and
it's 2015 now. So we have quite a bit
more years of data which we will add
into that. So there we go, that's what we
will be creating and we will start right
in the next tutorial of this section. I look
forward to seeing you next time and
until then, happy analyzing.